Troy:
Belonged to Alicia.
Took it off her corpse
after I killed her.
Madison: You said
you'd take us to the herd.
It's time to hold up
your end of the deal.
Man:
We're here, Troy --
The rest of the herd
is caught up.
Troy: I see it, and you might
want to get down.
[Machine gunfire]
Troy:
Things have changed.
[Squelching]
Tracy: No!
This is how
PADRE survives.
Tracy,
she's not my daughter.
If Serena's not
Tracy's mother, who is?
Alicia.
No!
Where is she?!
Tracy!
♪♪
[Walkers growling]
Madison: Tracy?
Tracy?
You don't have to be afraid.
♪♪
-Tracy?
-Tracy!
♪♪
-Tracy, come out!
-Tracy!
-[Exhales sharply]
[Walkers growling]
Woman: Tracy?
[Growling]
♪♪
Dwight: I got it.
Sherry: June, we need you
over at the docks.
June: Did you find her?
Not yet, but we
found Troy's guy.
His right-hand man,
he's hurt pretty bad.
Daniel:
What are you doing?
Why are you helping him?
He's our declared enemy.
The herd's dispersed.
Okay?
We keep him close, we find out
where the others went.
Find a car
and get it ready.
We need to get as far away
from this mess as we can.
It's over, Daniel.
Not as long as that girl
is out there somewhere.
Sherry: Tracy?
You're scared of her?
Troy's followers
are fanatics.
I'm not sticking around to see
what they're gonna do
to help his daughter.Do what you want.
We got to keep moving.
How far
is your refinery?
A day's drive.Okay.
Get the car,
and I'll get the supplies.
Hurry.
[Grunting]
[Walkers growling]
♪♪
[Whimpers] Aah! Aah!
[Thud, Madison grunts]
[Panting]
Come on. You're gonna get
yourself killed.
You don't care.
You killed my dad.
I do.
You heard Troy.
Your mom...
My daughter...
No.
It's not true.
My mom's name was Serena.
She died!
Why would he tell me
what he did?
I don't know.
Come on.
Come with me.
It's not safe out here.
There are dead everywhere.
It's not safe with you.
I did what I had to do.
Stay away from --
Ouch!
Your ankle's hurt, okay?
What's left of that herd
is still out here.
I'm all you got.
Now, come on.
[Coughing]
[Wheezing]
What's wrong with you?
Where are you taking me?
To find your mother...
find my daughter.
♪♪
So we can
put her to rest.
My dad, he said
you would change.
♪♪
You believe that?
Listen, he was right
about one thing --
pretending the world's
different than it is...
that's what gets
people killed.
And the sooner you realize
that, the better.
That's how
you're gonna survive.
I figured that out too late
to save my own kids.
I'm not gonna make
the same mistake with you.
♪♪
[Engine starts]
Daniel, I'm at
the restoration place near 17.
Meet me here
when you find supplies.
Don't say anything.
Daniel: Luciana, you're
breaking up. Repeat, please.
Turn off the walkie.
What is this about?
I'm just trying to get home.
You said your road network
goes to Fort Worth, right?
I need you to show us
the way.
"Us"?
Come on, kid.
She looks hurt.
Why are you
doing it this way?
I can't run the risk of you
taking her back to the island.
She needs to understand
that living the way
Strand wants to, the way
I used to think we could,
that's just gonna
get her killed.
What does that have
to do with me
driving you halfway
across the country?
You said you'd take us
there once
Troy was out
of the picture.
Not like this.
[Engine sputtering]
Fix the car
so we can get out of here!
♪♪
[Breathing raggedly]
Hey!
I'm fine.
Alicia deserves to
be put at rest.
Maybe that will help you
see beyond your anger.
Maybe that will show her
there is something more
to fight for.
I need to get
a new fuel pump.
Your walkie.
♪♪
There.
How's that?
Should keep
the swelling down.
What you're trying to do,
pretending we're family,
it won't change
what you did.
I know what I did
seems unforgivable.
But at least this way,
you're gonna live long enough
to understand
why I did it.
What's this for?
My dad said he got it
from my mom.
If what
he said was true...
it belonged to Alicia.
Why are you
giving it to me?
It doesn't work.
It didn't keep
my dad safe.
Guess it didn't keep
Alicia safe, either.
Back away!
♪♪
I'm not leaving you.
I said, back away.
Magazine's not loaded.
You think I'd risk
pointing a loaded gun
at my daughter's kid?
Why are you keeping that?
We both know
it doesn't work.
Well, besides you, it's all
I have left of my daughter.
We'll get
a new chain for it.
Strand: Madison,
what are you doing here?!
What the hell?
You told them?
I gave you my walkie.
♪♪
Daniel: Luciana...
[Speaks Spanish]
We need to take Tracy
back to PADRE
so she can process
what's happened.
Help you process
what Troy told you.
No.
She can't go back there.
I can't go back there.
Madison, PADRE
is the safest place.
The herd, it's done.
What you want to build there,
what Alicia wanted,
what I wanted it
to be for so long,
it'll just get her killed!
What are you talking about,
Madison?
Alicia -- she gave
Troy a second chance,
and he killed her for it,
and then he stole her kid!
♪♪
Tracy...
I know things may seem
very scary right now,
but you can trust me.
[Fires gun three times]
Get away from her, Victor!
[Growling]
-It's part of the herd!
-I got it!
Madison, you're not
thinking clearly.
Don't follow us.
Fix the car.
There isn't time.Bullshit.
I am not going to let you
take Luciana away from me.
Nobody's gonna get hurt
if you just let us go.
Come on.
We'll go on foot if we have to.
Ada: Shoot them!No!
We don't have enough bullets.
We'll only draw more of them.
♪♪
We need to get inside!
[Walkers growling]
Is there another
way out?
Luciana: The back wall
is caved in.
Another one of your fabricated
dead-ends, Madison.
If you'd just
let us leave...
Strand: There's no point
in casting aspersions.
Let's get help.
PADRE ONE, this is Victor --
do you copy?
PADRE ONE, this is
Victor -- do you copy?
Frank: Victor,
where the hell are you?
[Sighs] Frank. We're pinned
inside an auto shop.
We need help.
We're not going to be able
to help you.
We've got our own problem
with the dead.
♪♪
[Grunts]
What the hell is this?
Russell: You should have done
more than disperse 'em.
If Troy taught us one thing,
it's how to herd the dead.
They're gonna
overrun this place,
and there's not a damn thing you
or anybody else can do about it.
♪♪
This isn't what he wanted.
We had a truce!
He told us where the herd was!
And then you killed him.
You stop them.
Stop them!
I can't.
[Chuckles]
♪♪
Okay, get everyone inside!
Close the gates -- now!
♪♪
[Walkers growling]
We don't have enough firepower,
so we wait them out.
They'll tire eventually.
Time is one thing
that we do not have.
Frank, Frank,
do you copy?
Victor, can you hear me?
Frank...
can you hear me?
I can, Victor.
I'm on the repeater network.
As long as it's running,
you should be able to hear us.
[Sighs]
Are you okay?
We're safe for now.
You?
Klaus?
We're surrounded by walkers,
just like you.
But the walls are holding.
Is Tracy there?
She is.
Why?
Troy's man, he wants
to talk to her.
He says that
if we hand her over,
his men will draw
the walkers away.
-Victor, no.
-Tracy --
-Victor, Victor...
-Just...
Tell him you're all right.
Is it really you, Russell?
Russell: It is.
I promised your -- your daddy
I'd take care of you,
and that's what
I'm going to do.
Troy asked me
to look after her.
After you gutted him.
The man wasn't in his
right mind, Madison.
She's all
I have left, Russell.
That's not necessarily true.
What the hell does
that mean?
Troy stabbed Alicia.
Left her for dead.
But he didn't see her die.
[Exhales sharply]
♪♪
He told me she turned.
He said it because
that's what I told him.
You see, Troy cut her
up pretty good.
But she got him, too.
Nearly drove that arm of hers
clean through his stomach.
Just like mother,
like daughter.
And that's how he got it.
He limped home with that thing
still stuck in his belly.
Couple days after the fight,
Troy sent me
and some of the men back...
make sure the job was done.
We found a mattress
soaked in blood.
The knife he stabbed her
with on the floor.
Bloody footprints
heading out the door.
That doesn't necessarily
mean she's alive.
No, she could be.
He could be lying to get
what he wants.
Why would you tell him
that she died?
Troy was in a lot of pain.
He wasn't in a forgiving mood,
so I told him
what he wanted to hear.
So give me Tracy,
and you go
find your daughter.
[Walkers growling]
Luciana: Don't fall for it,
Madison.
♪♪
Can't do that.
If Alicia is out there,
she deserves to be
with her daughter.
She wouldn't want me
to turn her over to you.
I thought you might
say that, Madison.
I guess we're just gonna have
to take this island then.
Walls are 10 feet thick.
The walkers can't get in here.
[Laughs]
They don't have to get in.
We just have to get you out.
[Explosions]
Tracy, get as far away
from there as you can!
Aah!
♪♪
Frank? Frank?
Can you hear me?
Do you copy?
We need to get to that island.Della: Tell that to them.
Help me! I'm doing this
with or without you!
-Victor, no!
-No, no!
[Growling]
[Indistinct shouting]
♪♪
[Walkers growling]
How did you do that?
We've had a couple grenade
launchers for a while.
Just had to wait for the right
moment to let 'em rip.
[Grunts]
The fire team can't get it
under control.
We can't stay here much longer.
Sherry: Daniel was right.
We should have left him
out there to die.
Did you find them?
PADRE had them deep in storage,
but what are they?
A little help
from the past. Good.
How far to the docks?
Dwight: A hundred yards,
if we go through the woods.
Diane: How do we get
past the dead?
Hey, you take the prefects
and you fire off as many flares
as you can
on the far walls.
Yeah.
Will that draw
enough away?
I don't know.
♪♪
Look, the flares,
they'll thin the herds, okay?
But we're gonna create
our own path.
Only kill walkers
if you have to,
and whatever you do, do not stop
until you get to the dock!
♪♪
Come on.
You ready?
[Shouts of assent]
For Finch.
Yeah.
Open 'em!
Are you insane?
They'll eat you alive.
That's why you're here.
Aah!
I think that's
the last of them.
Everyone okay?
We can get to the island now.
This is the last time
you put in danger
what's left of my family
to save yours!
Daniel, you would do
the same thing
if you knew that Luciana
was on that island.
Hey, I know what you're doing,
Victor Strand.
I know your game.
You're pursuing this
self-serving crusade
to help you feel better
about all the rotten things
that you've done.
You think that's what
this is about?
The parts of me that you hate
are the things
that you don't like
about yourself.
You're a psychiatrist now,
Mr. Con-Man?
Every single person
I care for and I lost,
somehow you
and you were a part of it!
We have all
lost people, Daniel.
I was thinking about Los Angeles
the other day,
and I'm so sorry
I let your husband
into my barbershop,
because ever since I did,
everything has been
bad luck for me.
What have you ever
done for us?!
And you know what?
I am sorry we let you
into our home.
I'm sorry I let you
onto my boat.
Luciana: I got
the fuel pump working.
It's ready to go.
We can make it to the refinery
before sunrise.
I don't know if Alicia's alive,
but wherever she is,
she's better off without you.
-That's enough!
-Daniel!
This will get you
where you want to go.
I left you a can of gas.
I hope you find her, and I hope
you find the peace you deserve.
Let her go.
They got the right idea.
Run as far away from these
people as you can,
because you are
losing your mind.
And you, you're a selfish,
pathological liar
that would've gotten
Luciana and myself killed,
just like every single person
I ever cared for!
♪♪
[Car starts]
[Car door closes]
Frank?
Frank, do you copy?
Frank: Victor,
there are too many.
We can't get to the dock.
They're pushing us back
to the center.
[Growling]
Strand: Frank, what are you
talking about?
Why aren't you inside the fort?
[Walkers growling]
Frank? Frank?
Why aren't you answering?
Go, go!
I'm sorry, Victor.
We've got our hands full.
They're going
to breach the net.
We need to move.
The docks are close.
Come on.
What are you waiting on?
We're not going with you,
Victor.
What?
Frank, Klaus, everyone,
they're at the island.
I have to find Alicia.
We will --
after we get to the island.
I'm in no shape
for a fight.
If I go to the island,
I might not come back.
I need you, Madison.
I need my friend.
[Voice breaking] And to try
to save my family.
♪♪
You are my friend,
but I can't.
You don't understand, Victor.
I've been seeing her.
Nick, too.
It's like a dream.
Just their faces.
Back in LA,
before everything went bad.
♪♪
If I have the chance
to find her, Victor,
I have to try.
Start over.
You don't think
I want that?
I have my family.
I dream that you'll
have yours, too.
Then you understand
why I have to look for her.
♪♪
I can't go any further
with you, Victor.
♪♪
So this is it.
I came here to save her.
I came here
to save you.
So I can give you a chance
to get things right.
And now Frank and Klaus
may die because of it.
I guess you're teaching her
what you want her to learn.
This is how you survive.
♪♪
Let's move.
Victor...
No!
If you find Alicia...
...tell her I tried.
♪♪
Madison?
Yeah.
If you're so sure
the world's shit,
why was it so important
for Alicia
to believe
it could be different?
I don't know, Tracy.
I --
I think parents just try
to give their kids
the things
that they didn't have.
So, when you were a kid,
you didn't have anything
to believe in?
♪♪
My daddy used to drink.
And when he drank,
he hurt my mama.
He'd hit her.
Then he'd apologize.
He'd...
claim he'd stop drinking,
but he never did.
I watched that happen
for a long time.
I was like your age.
And then, one day,
it just went too far.
I just saw too much.
Like all those moments
just sort of built up.
And I knew he was gonna
kill my mama...
eventually.
And I wanted it to stop.
♪♪
And I wanted it
to stop so bad,
I shot him.
♪♪
You did it to protect her.
You -- You didn't
want Alicia
to have to do
anything like that.
♪♪
Yeah, I thought
I could build a...
a place where she
wouldn't have to,
where she and my son
could feel safe.
But all I ever did was just
put them in danger.
So you get it?
♪♪
Get what?
Why I have to do this.
[Groaning]
♪♪
[Laughs]
Why are you laughing?
Because you
finally understand.
[Walkers growling]
This is what happens when you
try to build something better.
You end up giving
people hope.
End up putting them
in danger.
You end up getting
them killed.
Find Alicia.
Make sure
she understands, too.
No! She's --
She's not my mom!
I'm done listening
to you!
♪♪
[Walkers growling]
[Shouts]
Can anyone hear me?!
We're in trouble!
We need help!
Someone! Anyone!
We can't fight them off
on our own!
Luciana: Victor, we copy, but
we cannot get there in time.
Strand: No! No!
It can't end like this!
No!
[Growling]
Dad.
♪♪
I was looking for you...
...all night.
I shot Madison.
I had to.
But I think everyone died
on the island.
♪♪
I love you, Dad.
[Gunshot]
♪♪
[Sighs]
You were all I had left.
Strand:
Put the gun down, Tracy.
[Sighs] Leave me alone.
If that's what you want.
But first, if you let me,
I'd like to help
clean you up.
And there's something
I need to tell you.
[Walkers growling]
♪♪
Hmm. I know a place
that's safe.
♪♪
What do you want?
Why are you still here?
I'm here because you still have
something left to fight for.
You just
don't know it yet.
How can you say that?
How are you even alive?
Because Madison saved me.
She saved all of us.
And I promised her
I'd find you,
so I could tell you
what she did.
No.
No, no.
I-I shot her.
I killed her.
[Gasps]
[Panting]
♪♪
Oh!
Strand: She thought
she was dying, too.
She thought
it was all over.
[Grunts]
What happened?
♪♪
Something stopped
the bullet.
What?
♪♪
The St. Christopher's
medallion --
Alicia's medallion.
♪♪
I-I...
I don't understand.
♪♪
After you shot her,
after she realized
you wanted everything
to end,
she knew she was wrong.
She knew she had to do something
big, something monumental,
in order to have any hope
of restoring your faith.
My faith?
In what?
In what's worth
fighting for.
[Growling]
♪♪
Move! Move!
Move that way!
Go!
Strand:
For the people we love.
♪♪
For the people we have.
For the things that are bigger
than all of us.
♪♪
[Gunshot]
For the things that we'd give up
our lives to protect.
There's no way
she could've saved you all.
Not with that many dead.
-But she did.
-How?
The same way she did
once before.
[Growling]
♪♪
She led the dead
into PADRE's walls
so we could escape
to the docks.
So we could live.
♪♪
[Grunts]
Why would she
do that for you?
It wasn't just
for us, Tracy.
It was for you, too,
so you would know.
Know what?
That your dad,
that Madison...
they were right.
They knew that fighting
for something
better can get you killed.
But it's also
something that
just fighting
to survive can't.
What?
It can let you
live forever.
♪♪
Then I've got
no one left.
Yes, you do.
You have me.
No.
And all the others.
She died for me.
And so did he.
I can't.
-Tra--
-Can't.
Tracy.
I can't be here.
Tracy!
♪♪
I found this chain
in the supplies.
I wish this
still worked.
[Madison wheezing]
[Coughing]
[Mutters indistinctly]
Where am I?
You're awake.
I thought
you were gonna die.
I had to drag you up here
on a stretcher.
Antibiotics.
I think your lungs got infected.
My dad, he trained all of
his kids in field medicine.
The fort...
it collapsed.
Took half a day to dig you
out of the rubble.
If you didn't
have this on,
you would've suffocated.
[Groans]
You came back.
You're the only family
I have left.
Victor told me
what you did.
I am so sorry
about your dad.
I know you are.
I'm sorry I --
I shot you.
I don't think I gave you
much choice.
[Groaning]
You did good.
You did real good.
Woman: Is anyone there?
I'll be okay.
Stop!
Don't come any closer!
Woman: I'm not here
to hurt anyone.
Keep your hands up and move
slowly towards the tent.
You can put the gun down.
I'm just here to bury my...
♪♪
Mom?
Alicia?
♪♪
[Both sobbing]
I just can't believe it's real.
It is.
I promise you, it is.
You okay?
I will be.
[Cat mewling]
What is that?
That is a very old friend
I came across
searching a warehouse
for supplies.
Trying to return him
to his rightful owner.
How did you find us?
A story.
About a woman
who sacrificed herself here.
And the person who told me
said her name was Madison.
And it didn't make
any sense,
and I didn't know how you
could possibly be alive...
...but I had to be sure.
I saw the fort over there.
How are you still here?
Your daughter.
She came back.
She saved me.
What are you
talking about?
Tracy.
♪♪
She's the child that Troy
took from you.
♪♪
[Exhales sharply]
I never had a kid.
You're not my mom?
No, I'm -- I'm not,
but I knew your mom
when you were a baby.
Her name was Serena.
She was
a pretty amazing woman.
I don't understand why
Troy would lie
about something like that.
♪♪
Tracy: He knew how hard you
fought for your own kids.
He wanted to give you
a reason to fight for me.
♪♪
You said you heard
a story about me.
From who?
I've been picking up
radio chatter on the road.
I think their route
runs by here.
You know I would've come
looking for you
if I knew you were alive.
I would've come looking
for you, too.
I never would've stopped.
After Troy attacked me,
after I got back on my feet,
I went to find the people
I'd been staying with.
And I saw something
on the road,
these women that dressed
like me, they used weapons
I was using, they were doing
the things that I was doing.
They were helping people.
We met some of them.Yeah.
It's like the story of what
I'd done was doing more good
than I could on my own.
And so I went
somewhere else.
I...started using
a different name
so Troy couldn't find me.
If I hadn't have done that,
maybe we would've
found each other.
You made the right choice.
You gave all those people
something to believe in.
Alicia, Madison.
[Vehicles approaching]
♪♪
The people who told me
what you did,
they have one
of those containers.
♪♪
MADRE?
Because of me?
They don't even know
you're alive.
♪♪
Everyone has the maps?
Everyone knows where to refuel?
Yeah.
What direction
you headed?
Uh, there's a cabin in Texas
I want to visit.
Someone there I...
haven't seen in a while.
You want company?
It's far.
It's okay.
Gives you time to teach me.
Teach you what?
Medicine.
What you did for me
when I got shot...
I want to learn how to do
the same for other people.
We're going to
the right place, then.
Um, why's that?
The cabin belonged
to my husband.
It's where I met him.
It's where he taught me
to shoot...
to survive...
♪♪
To live again.
If he can do that
for me there,
maybe I can do the same
for you...
Odessa.
Ada: We'll get the repeater
stations working.
You'll be able to contact
each other, stay in touch.
You'll be hearing
from us.
We think some of the parents
might still be out there.
Uh, we're gonna
find them.
How?
Well, we found each other,
against all odds.
We'd like to do
the same for you.
And when you find them,
where will they live?
We'll figure it out.
♪♪
[Sighs]
What are you thinking?
Uh...
♪♪
I was thinking
of The Sanctuary.
What?
We -- We could take
everybody there.
D...
Why would you want
to go back there?
♪♪
Bec-- Because we know it,
it's defensible.
The streets
are still intact.
Oh, my.
[Sighs]
I ca--
I lost you
to that place before, D.
I can't lose you again.
Hey. You're not gonna
lose me again.
We are family.
I mean, maybe --
maybe we can take
that place and --
and -- and make it worthy
of its name.
I don't know.
It'll make Finch proud.
♪♪
Okay.
Okay, let's try.
♪♪
I love you.
I've been thinking about
what I told you.
And I was wrong --
in some parts.
You did save me,
you did save my family
when the world fell apart.
Thanks for the Abigail.
No need to thank me
for something
that people should do
for one other.
You just caught me
on a good day.
Maybe you do remind me of
the worst things about myself.
I don't know if people like us
can act differently.
And that's why I have
a problem with you, Victor.
♪♪♪
You know, but for the sake
of others and our own sakes...
...I guess we got
to try to change.
I think I have.
Whether you have,
that's up to you.
♪♪
[Speaking German]
[Speaks Spanish]
Take good care of yourself.
You, too.
Gracias.
♪♪
[Cat mewling]
Skidmark?
Where did you come from?
♪♪
Huh?
[Laughing]
♪♪
Did you put this in here?
No. Why?
Nothing.
Come on.
You did all
that you could.
If Tracy wants to be found,
she will.
We'll comb the area
a few more times.
Okay?
Okay.
♪♪
[Exhales sharply]
What are you looking
at, Victor?
Nothing.
♪♪
Where to?
[Chuckles]
Onward.
Okay.
♪♪
Are you sure you're okay
with this?
They don't need me.
They're like the people
who stepped in for Alicia.
They'll do better
if they think I'm gone.
Before I give them a reason
to stop believing.
♪♪
Well, where to?
I kept having these visions
of you, of Nick...
back before everything
went bad.
Where?
Los Angeles.
We saw it get bombed.
That was a long time ago.
Probably still pretty
rough there.
Probably a lot of people
who could use our help.
♪♪
It's never gonna be
what it was.
That doesn't mean
we can't start over.
♪♪
Let's go.
You in, Tracy?
Yeah.
Let's go home.
♪ And a young'un's dream
of growing up to ride ♪
♪ On a freight train
leaving town ♪
♪ Not knowing where I'm bound ♪
♪ And no one could change
my mind, but mama tried ♪
♪ Mama tried, mama tried
to raise me better ♪
♪ But her pleading I denied ♪
♪ That leaves only me to blame
'cause mama tried ♪
♪♪
Well, well, well,
we've come to our end.
I'd like to thank
the incredible fan base
of "Fear the Walking Dead" for
supporting us all these years.
Muchas gracias,
and I hope that you continue
to support us
in the future as well.
Thank you to the fans
for watching.
It's been fantastic to know
we're being supported by you.
So, thank you very much.
Thank you so much
for all your love
and support for Grace
and for me.
Thank you for making me
feel welcome.
Thank you so much
for your support,
for your passion.
Thank you for watching.
Thank you.
♪♪
Tracy: My dad said he got it
from my mom.
If what he said was true,
it belonged to Alicia.
Why are you
giving it to me?
It doesn't work.
Didn't keep my dad safe.
Goldberg:
Madison starts this episode
in the aftermath
of killing Troy,
and she wants to take Tracy,
who she believes is now
the only family she's got left,
as far away from PADRE
as possible.
She wants to teach her
to veer away from
"no one's gone until
they're gone" mentality in her,
which is completely different
than the Madison
that we even saw
at the beginning of this season.
Dickens: I think that's been
part of her struggle,
and her arc this season is
sort of learning how to be there
and where she wants to be
in that doctrine.
Not going with you,
Victor.
If I go to the island,
I might not come back.
I need you, Madison.
I need my friend...
as I try
to save my family.
You are my friend.
But I can't.
Good. Good. Cut. Cut.
Dickens:
Colman and I knew we were
going into that that day.
And we knew it would be
our last real scene together
as these characters
and that it was, in effect,
these characters,
it was their goodbye scene.
Domingo: You almost want to put
such grace around it.
And you don't want to think
about it too much more.
You want to let it be
and have a space for it.
So this is it?
That scene
is going to bring
not only Madison and Strand
into the room
but Colman and Kim
in eight seasons of
"Fear the Walking Dead" together
and being best friends
on camera and off camera.
Dickens: Colman and I
love working together.
It's been a really magical
friendship that I made --
many friendships, of course --
but that one is really,
um, powerful.
All I ever did was just
put them in danger.
So you get it.
Get what?
Why I have to do this.
[Gunshot]
Chambliss: We think
this will be a moment
where Madison will be
kind of devastated,
but instead, Madison is glad
that Tracy has learned
this very dark lesson,
because she thinks
that's what Tracy will need
to carry forward to live.
It's this deeply cynical,
broken aspect to Madison
that we haven't seen
in such a heightened way before.
Chambliss:
For us, it's a sad moment
because we've seen kind of
how far Madison has fallen
as a character,
that she actually believes that
with every fiber of her being.
[Breathing heavily]
Dickens: You know, we think
Madison is felled by that,
but, in the end, is protected
by an empty magazine
as well as
the Saint Christopher's medal.
Madison realizes she does need
to live for something better,
in a better way.
And the only way to sort of
regain the trust
of this grandchild, really,
is to show her how to live
and to be a better person
and to sacrifice herself again.
And she knew she was going to
have to do something major.
Amelio: We kind of always
joke about this,
but, like,
we always burn something down
or some big compound
gets destroyed.
♪♪
Chambliss:
We had all of our characters
kind of at this crossroad
with the idea that they're all
going to these different corners
of the apocalyptic world.
They're going to spread the idea
of trying to build
something better,
all of which was kind of
inspired by Madison's sacrifice.
And it was really
this story of Madison
and what she could provide
for everyone.
That almost makes
the myth of Madison,
the legend of Madison
more important than the person.
Goldberg:
Of course, what we then realize
in a very emotional way
is that that story did live on.
Madison not only lived,
but the story of her sacrifice
lived on,
and it spread out in the world.
And that story found its way
to Alicia.
Mom?
Alicia?
♪♪
Chambliss:
It felt like Madison's story
and Alicia's story
would never really be complete
if these two characters
weren't able to come together
one more time.
We'd talked about a lot
of different ways to do it,
but, ultimately, we felt like
the way they should be
reunited, for Madison,
should almost feel like
it was this karmic reward
for her making
the right decision,
for her ultimately standing up
for what she believed in.
You know I would have
come looking for you if
I knew you were alive.
I would have come
looking for you, too.
I never
would have stopped.
Goldberg: It was just wonderful
to really bring those journeys
full circle
and to promise a story
between them and Tracy that --
that will outlive "Fear."
Dickens: Everybody join me in
thanking Alycia Debnam-Carey
for coming and being part
of our series finale.
[Cheers and applause]
Thank you, everyone.
Thank you so much.
It's been amazing
coming back.
I really, really appreciate
you all. Thank you.
I know when the --
the gentleman talked to me
about coming back to the show,
they sort of pitched me this
idea of reuniting with Alicia
in the end.
She and I both
love this show so much
and both love the fan base,
and we want to do that for them,
so we were happy to do that.
I just want to say
what a journey this has been.
[Cheering and applause]
Chambliss: It's been
a lot of mixed emotions
saying goodbye to this show.
I don't think it's sunk in yet
that it's over.
Dickens: I really love
playing the character.
I loved doing the show.
I'll miss it, for sure.
Our ride has been so special.
I feel grateful, I feel happy.
My heart is full.
Goldberg:
We make this show for the fans,
and you truly are
the best fans in the world.
To share these episodes with you
and to know that they are
connecting with you
is what makes it all worth it.
Domingo:
It's kind of a beautiful gift
that, like, you leave this show
and you know that you have love
wherever you go.
You change people's lives.
You really do.
Evangelista:
I've had the most wonderful
experiences with the fans,
and I'm so grateful that I got
to meet a lot of them in person
at different events
and things.
Yeah. Yeah.
But even just -- just the love
and the support from you guys
is truly the reason
the show has been on
for as long
as it has been.Yeah.
Just thank you
for making the experience
as big and beautiful all around
as it was for me
between action and cut.
Thank you to the
"Fear the Walking Dead" fans.
Thank you.
Thank you guys
so much.
That was it!
Victor's almost
left the building.
Let's go home.
[Engine starts]
♪♪